Airbnb
Check in Check out Guests
Room type Entire home/apt Private room Shared room Find a place
BROWSE 
HELP 
LIST YOUR SPACE
Joshua 
INBOX0
Welcome
Departments
Locations
Engineers
Data Scientist - Growth
Note: Due to volume of applications we receive, we kindly ask that you only apply to a maximum of one Data Scientist role from among the four posted: Trust and Safety; Payments and Compliance; Growth; and Search. This does not preclude you from being considered for multiple roles. Thank you. 

Airbnb has grown into a global platform that now connects travelers and hosts from over 34,000 cities.  Continuing to grow this network for users from so many diverse geographies, cultures, and languages presents unique challenges.

We are seeking a talented and proven analytics expert to help investigate our data to help grow Airbnb's community.  The candidate would work cross-functionally with other teams to optimize our acquisition channels and onboarding flows.  Some projects we're currently tackling include: amplifying word-of-mouth referrals, balancing supply and demand with targeted marketing, personalizing emails to engage users, and tailoring the user experience across different languages and devices.

 This role has the potential for massive impact on Airbnb's growth trajectory. If you have a background in big data and are interested in applying it to grow Airbnb, we want to hear from you.

 Qualifications:

2+ years professional experience

Proven achievements resulting from data analysis

Degree in computer science, applied math, physics, economics, or other quantitative science (graduate degree a plus)

Experience with languages used for querying (e.g. Hive/Pig/SQL), preprocessing (e.g. unix/python), and statistical analysis (e.g. R/Matlab/Stata)

Proven ability to succeed in both collaborative and independent work environments.

Nice to have: experience with experiment design, machine learning, natural language processing, time series analysis/forecasting, GIS, survey design, creative data visualizations.

 

Benefits:

Stock

$2000 yearly employee travel coupon

Competitive salaries

Paid time off

Medical, dental, & vision insurance

Life & disability coverage

401K

Flexible Spending Accounts

Apple equipment

Daily breakfast, lunch, and dinner

Weekly happy hour


Apply Now
 Pin It 

Location Settings


Company
About
Jobs
Press
Blog
Help
Policies
Disaster Response
Terms & Privacy
Discover
Trust & Safety
Earn Travel Credit
Airbnb Picks
Mobile
Support NYC
Site Map
Hosting
Why Host
Hospitality
Responsible Hosting
Stories
Join us on
Twitter  Facebook  Google  YouTube
© Airbnb, Inc.
