Job description
We also have openings available for recent graduates. To view these opportunities, view our Students page.

Google's software engineers develop the next-generation technologies that change how millions of users connect, explore, and interact with information and one another. Our ambitions reach far beyond just Search. Our products need to handle information at the the scale of the web. We're looking for ideas from every area of computer science, including information retrieval, artificial intelligence, natural language processing, distributed computing, large-scale system design, networking, security, data compression, and user interface design; the list goes on and is growing every day. As a software engineer, you work on a small team and can switch teams and projects as our fast-paced business grows and evolves. We need our engineers to be versatile and passionate to tackle new problems as we continue to push technology forward.

With your technical expertise you manage individual projects priorities, deadlines and deliverables. You design, develop, test, deploy, maintain, and enhance software solutions.

Responsibilities

Minimum qualifications
BA/BS degree in a technical field 
or equivalent practical experience.  
4 years relevant work experience, including 2 years industry experience.


Preferred qualifications
Master's or PhD in related field.
6 years relevant experience, including 3 years industry experience.
2 years relevant work experience, including programming experience in C, C++, Java and/or Python.
Extensive programming experience in C/C++ and/or Java (strong OO skills).
Experience developing or designing large software systems.
Relevant work experience, including experience with Unix/Linux or Windows environments, distributed systems, machine learning, information retrieval, and TCP/IP.


Area

Google is and always will be an engineering company. We hire people with a broad set of technical skills who are ready to tackle some of technology's greatest challenges and make an impact on millions, if not billions, of users. At Google, engineers not only revolutionize search, they routinely work on massive scalability and storage solutions, large-scale applications and entirely new platforms for developers around the world. From AdWords to Chrome, Android to YouTube, Social to Local, Google engineers are changing the world one technological achievement after another.

Software Engineering