Job description
Do you love movies? Really really love movies? What about TV? Do you stream most/all of your entertainment? Do you want to be part of the next huge thing that touches millions of lives?

At M-GO the answer to all these questions is YES! With both technology and entertainment in our DNA, M-GOs mission is to transform the world of digital entertainment on the viewers terms. Your terms.

To do this we need exceptional people. Individuals that enjoy collaborating with their peers, and bring passion + pride to their work. Doers that believe working to make an impact through innovation is the best way to build a product/service. Smart people that can be agile, moving quickly and independently, yet be respectful to others.

Like you we are picky and our bar is high, so we are looking for a Senior Engineer that shares our values and passions to join our Technology Team. Since our company is lean both in practice and in team size, this role is mission critical will be responsible for working throughout our platform.

The skills + experience + qualifications essential to the Senior Engineer role at M-GO are:
5+ years hands on development in Agile environment.
Strong OOA/D or Functional Programming knowledge.
2+ years of RESTful web services experience.
Solid Java + hands on experience with Spring MVC.
Working knowledge of Python or JS with Node.JS or Bootstrap or Backbone.
Experience with SQL and/or cloud DB technologies.
A true computer science engineering mindset with a sincere desire to constantly grow and work end-to-end.
At least a Bachelors Degree in Computer Science or related discipline. Equivalent experience is also welcome. Master degrees in CS are a plus.

M-GO was created by people who love entertainment for people who love being entertained and is a joint venture between DreamWorks Animation and Technicolor. We are available on major platforms and functions on a full spectrum of operating systems ranging from Android to iOS to Windows. M-GO is pre-loaded on Samsungs Smart TVs, Blu-ray players and Wi-Fi tablets, LG Smart TVs and Blu-ray players, VIZIOs Smart TVs, Blu-ray players, Wi-Fi tablets and digital media players, and Roku streaming players. But we are just getting started!

If you want to be part of a building an exciting digital movie and TV streaming service that makes it easier than ever to browse, rent, buy and watch the newest and best selection of movies and TV shows on peoples screens...then send us your resume and lets start the conversation.

M-GO is an EOE M/F/D/V and we never work with 3rd Party recruiters or staffing firms.