Job description
Rocket Fuel delivers the only programmatic media-buying platform at big data scale that harnesses the power of artificial intelligence to improve marketing ROI. Rocket Fuel's powerful Advertising That Learns™ technology drives best-in-plan results for advertisers, and empowers media teams to focus on strategy, not spreadsheets. Its distributed planet-scale computing engine currently screens over 26 billion ads per day, and selects the best for its customers, via real-time bidding (RTB) relationships with major publishers and exchanges. The technique has proven itself across web, mobile, video, and social channels, with 894 brands powered by Rocket Fuel in 2012.
 
We are seeking an experienced and passionate software engineer to develop and maintain Enterprise Business Applications and Integrations. 

This is a growth opportunity to tackle challenging problems related to integrating ERP, CRM and proprietary systems to optimize our back-office processes.

Requirements:
Proficiency in at least one data integration technology, such as Informatica, Dell, IBM, or Snaplogic.
Deep expertise in integration of business applications such as billing, CRM or ERP
Demonstrate hands-on experience with server or client side software development, interface development, techniques, frameworks and languages like Java, Ruby etc.
Experience with service oriented architecture and integration in SaaS, Cloud and On-Premise environment.
SQL knowledge and experience with database technologies like MySQL, or Oracle.
Business intelligence/analytics implementation experience is a plus.
 Responsibilities:
This individual must work effectively with business analysts, system analysts and users to understand business and functional requirements and translate to technical deign and then system change.
Serve as the primary point of contact for all technical issues, troubleshoot in collaboration with process architects, business and system analysts, integration engineers and users.
Participate in the systems architecture discussions and collaborate on the design, and provide process inputs.
Integrate internal Applications, ERP with CRM systems and ensure smooth data flows from upstream or downstream systems.
Adhere with the change management and compliance processes.
Education & Experience:  
Bachelor’s or higher degree in Information Systems, Computer Science, Engineering, or Management or equivalent experience in IT or ERP Development or Implementations.
5 years work experience.

About Rocket Fuel

Rocket Fuel is a digital-advertising technology company in Silicon Valley that has grown rocket-fast since its founding in 2008. It is the leading provider of artificial intelligence online-advertising solutions. It combines a world-class engineering team with the industry's most productive sales and delivery teams. Its customers are some of the world’s most successful brands.

Our team is passionate about both the products we develop and the way in which we develop them. Our process is guided by the unix philosophy, agile methodology, and the principle of test-driven software development. Our culture is lively and inclusive: you will participate in pair programming, peer code reviews, technical talks, and hackathons. We have a state-of-the-art software engineering environment with distributed source control, full release cycle, and continuous deployment.

Recent Accolades: 
# 1 on Deloitte Fast 500 for 2013
#4 on Forbes 2013 Most Promising Companies in America
Chief Executive Magazine Mid-Market Elite 100 for 2014
AlwaysOn Global 250 for 2011, 2012, & 2013
Silicon Valley Business Journal Fastest Growing Company for 2013
Sequoia Awards Outstanding Business of the Year for 2013