Job description
Think about impacting 1 out of every 2 people online--in innovative and imaginative ways that are uniquely Yahoo! We do just that and every day, and you could too. After all, it's big thinkers like you who will create the next generation of Internet experiences for consumers and advertisers across the globe. This position is for the Weather Backend Team in Yahoo. We build products which help advertisers to better target users online on the yahoo network and the exchange. Products we build directly impact revenue.

We're looking for world-class, senior software engineers to join our foundation team. This position calls for the application of knowledge of software design principles of distributed systems, algorithms, data structures, optimization as well as essential performance tuning/testing in distributed computing framework. Our focus is on building scalable systems and modular software; measuring and tuning of system performance and ensuring that the software will run reliably and is fault-tolerant in a 24/7 production environment. 

Responsibilities:

Architect, design and build fault-tolerant, high-performance, scalable systems and influence architecture, design and implementation across adjacent teams
Mentor junior team members in software development process and methodology
Interface with various teams to define requirements, interfaces, and implementation approaches
Work with System Engineering team for up-keeping of the good health of the Production systems
Work with engineers to help come up with test cases and develop regression tests and integrate with the continuous integration framework
Work with product managers to understand business needs and translate them into concrete technical requirements
Write detailed technical documents on the components being developed


Required:

BS OR MS in Comp Science or related field OR 8+ years of commercial software development experience
Strong expertise in Java and object-oriented programming
Proficiency in one of Perl, PHP
Strong UNIX skills
Solid understanding of data structures and algorithms
Familiarity with fault-tolerant system design and high-performance engineering
Structured thinker, Effective communicator and excellent written communication skills
Experience in distributed computing systems
Experience working on systems handling large volumes of data.
Experience with Agile product development methodology

Preferred:

Experience with big data technologies like Hadoop, pig, hbase or similar